---
title: "My Internship Journey: Transforming Procrastination Into Progress"
author: Chittireddy Bhoomika
nptel_id: WIN25548

LinkedIn article link: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/my-internship-journey-transforming-procrastination-chittireddy-8hmlc
LinkedIn profile url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/bhoomikachittireddy-284388259/
---

# My Internship Journey: Transforming Procrastination Into Progress


This internship has been a highly rewarding experience that supported my growth on personal, academic, and professional levels. Beyond strengthening my technical skills, it helped me develop a structured mindset and adopt a more disciplined and professional approach to learning and work.

At the beginning of the internship, my exposure to Express.js and React was limited, and these technologies initially felt challenging. However, the focused, bite-sized learning format provided through the ViBe platform made the journey engaging and manageable. The concise modules encouraged daily learning, improved consistency, and enabled me to successfully complete 100% of my ViBe learning progress with confidence. Instant feedback, visible progress, and small milestones created a healthy dopamine-driven motivation, making learning feel rewarding and achievable rather than overwhelming.

A significant part of my learning experience involved collaborative learning with peers. Through breakout rooms, I gained hands-on exposure to TypeScript and MongoDB, where peer discussions, shared problem-solving, and mutual support helped deepen my understanding of these technologies. These interactive sessions promoted active participation, knowledge exchange, and practical learning beyond individual study.

One of the most meaningful transformations during this journey was overcoming procrastination and significantly reducing doom scrolling. Real-time progress tracking and rank updates helped me stay focused and replace unproductive habits with intentional learning. Daily stand-ups and interactive Zoom sessions further enriched the experience by encouraging discussions, idea exchange, and learning from diverse perspectives.

Overall, this internship helped me shift from outcome-driven pressure to curiosity-driven, consistent learning. It reinforced the importance of focus, attention to detail, collaboration, and continuous improvement. I am excited to apply my learning to real-world projects and continue growing through hands-on development.

I would like to express my sincere gratitude to VLEAD (Vicharanashala Lab), Annam.ai, and IIT Ropar for providing this valuable internship opportunity, continuous guidance, and a well-structured learning environment that made this journey impactful and enriching. give in readme.md format
